---
title: "API Reference: apollo-server"
sidebar_title: apollo-server
---

This API reference documents the exports from the `apollo-server` package.

## `ApolloServer`

The core of an Apollo Server implementation. For an example, see the [getting-started article](/getting-started/).

### `constructor(options)`: <`ApolloServer`>

#### Parameters

* `options`: <`Object`>

  * `typeDefs`: <`DocumentNode`> | <`Array<DocumentNode>`> _(required)_

    DocumentNode(s) generated by using [`gql`](#gql) tag. They are string representations of GraphQL schema in the Schema Definition Language (SDL).

```js
const typeDefs = gql`
  type Author {
    name
  }
`;

new ApolloServer({
	typeDefs,
	resolvers,
});
```

  * `resolvers`: <`Object`> _(required)_

    A map of resolvers for the types defined in `typeDefs`. The key should be the type name and the value should be a `Function` to be executed for that type.

  * `context`: <`Object`> | <`Function`>

    An object or function called with the current request that creates the context shared across all resolvers

    ```js
    new ApolloServer({
      typeDefs,
      resolvers,
      context: (integrationContext) => ({
        // Important: The `integrationContext` argument varies depending
        // on the specific integration (e.g. Express, Koa,  Lambda, etc.)
        // being used. See the table below for specific signatures.

        // For example, using Express's `authorization` header, and a
        // `getScope` method (intentionally left unspecified here):
        authScope: getScope(integrationContext.req.headers.authorization)
      }),
    });
    ```

    | Integration | Integration Context Signature |
    |---|---|
    | Azure Functions  | <code>{<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;request: [`HttpRequest`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-functions-nodejs-worker/blob/ba8402bd3e86344e68cb06f65f9740b5d05a9700/types/public/Interfaces.d.ts#L73-L108),<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;context: [`Context`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-functions-nodejs-worker/blob/ba8402bd3e86344e68cb06f65f9740b5d05a9700/types/public/Interfaces.d.ts#L18-L69)<br/>}</code> |
    | Google Cloud Functions  | <code>{ req: [`Request`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/express-serve-static-core/index.d.ts), res: [`Response`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/express-serve-static-core/index.d.ts#L490-L861) }</code> |
    | Cloudflare  | <code>{ req: [`Request`](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/blob/04fe6aa1314ca84de26b4dc26e9b29dda16b81bc/packages/apollo-server-env/src/fetch.d.ts#L37-L45) }</code> |
    | Express | <code>{<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;req: [`express.Request`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/express-serve-static-core/index.d.ts),<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;res: [`express.Response`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/express-serve-static-core/index.d.ts#L490-L861)<br/>}</code> |
    | Fastify  | <code>{<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;request: [`FastifyRequest`](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/1d4dcf2bcde46256c72e96c2cafc843a461c721e/types/request.d.ts#L15),<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;reply: [`FastifyReply`](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/1d4dcf2bcde46256c72e96c2cafc843a461c721e/types/reply.d.ts#L10)</br>}</code> |
    | hapi  | <code>{<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;request: [`hapi.Request`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/hapi/index.d.ts#L396-L605),<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;h: [`hapi.ResponseToolkit`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/hapi/index.d.ts#L979-L1100)<br/>}</code> |
    | Koa | <code>{ ctx: [`Koa.Context`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/koa/index.d.ts#L724-L731) }</code> |
    | AWS Lambda | <code>{<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;event: [`APIGatewayProxyEvent`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/aws-lambda/index.d.ts#L78-L92),<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;context: [`LambdaContext`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/aws-lambda/index.d.ts#L510-L534)<br/>}</code> |
    | Micro | <code>{ req: [`MicroRequest`](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/blob/c356bcf3f2864b8d2fcca0add455071e0606ef46/packages/apollo-server-micro/src/types.ts#L3-L5), res: [`ServerResponse`](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/50adc95acf873e714256074311353232fcc1b5ed/types/node/v10/http.d.ts#L145-L158) }</code> |

  * `logger`: `Logger`

    A logging implementation to be used in place of `console`.  The implementation must provide the methods which satisfy the requirements of [the `Logger` interface](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/blob/80a12d89ea1ae9a0892f4a81d9213eddf95ca965/packages/apollo-server-types/src/index.ts#L114-L121) (i.e. it must provide `debug`, `info`, `warn` and `error` methods).  When a custom logger is provided, it will receive all levels of logging and it is up to the logger itself to determine how it wishes to handle each level.  When a custom logger is _not_ provided, Apollo Server will default to outputting `warn` and `error` levels unless `debug: true` is specified,  in which case it will output all log levels (i.e. `debug` through `error`).

    Additionally, this `logger` will be made available on the `GraphQLRequestContext` and available to plugins.  This allows a plugin to, e.g., augment the logger on a per-request basis within the `requestDidStart` life-cycle hook.

  * `rootValue`: <`Any`> | <`Function`>

    A value or function called with the parsed `Document`, creating the root value passed to the graphql executor. The function is useful if you wish to provide a different root value based on the query operation type.

```js
new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  rootValue: (documentAST) => {
    const op = getOperationAST(documentNode)
    return op === 'mutation' ? mutationRoot : queryRoot;
  }
});
```

* `mocks`: <`Object`> | <`Boolean`>

  A boolean enabling the default mocks or object that contains definitions

* `mockEntireSchema`: <`Boolean`>

  A boolean controlling whether existing resolvers are overridden by mocks. Defaults to true, meaning that all resolvers receive mocked values.

* `schemaDirectives`: <`Object`>

  Contains definition of schema directives used in the `typeDefs`

* `introspection`: <`Boolean`>

  Enables and disables schema introspection. Disabled in production by default.

* `playground`: <`Boolean`> | <`Object`>

  Enables and disables playground and allows configuration of GraphQL Playground. The options can be found on GraphQL Playground's [documentation](https://github.com/prismagraphql/graphql-playground/#usage)

* `debug`: <`Boolean`>

  Enables and disables development mode helpers. Defaults to `true`

* `validationRules`: <`Object`>

  Schema validation rules

* `tracing`, `cacheControl`: <`Boolean`>

  If set to `true`, adds tracing or cacheControl metadata to the GraphQL response. This is primarily intended for use with the deprecated Engine proxy.  `cacheControl` can also be set to an object to specify arguments to the `apollo-cache-control` package, including `defaultMaxAge`, `calculateHttpHeaders`, and `stripFormattedExtensions`.

* `formatError`, `formatResponse`: <`Function`>

  Functions to format the errors and response returned from the server, as well as the parameters to graphql execution(`runQuery`)

* `schema`: <`Object`>

  An executable GraphQL schema that will override the `typeDefs` and `resolvers` provided. If you are using [file uploads](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/guides/file-uploads.html), you will have to add the `Upload` scalar to the schema, as it is not automatically added in case of setting the `schema` manually.

* `subscriptions`: <`Object`> | <`String`> | false

  String defining the path for subscriptions or an Object to customize the subscriptions server. Set to false to disable subscriptions

  * `path`: <`String`>
  * `keepAlive`: <`Number`>
  * `onConnect`: <`Function`>
  * `onDisconnect`: <`Function`>

* `engine`: <`EngineReportingOptions`> | boolean

  If the `APOLLO_KEY` environment variable is set, the Apollo Studio reporting agent starts automatically. The API key can also be provided as the `apiKey` field in an object passed as the `engine` field. See [EngineReportingOptions](#enginereportingoptions) for a full description of how to configure the reporting agent, including how to include variable values and HTTP headers.

* `persistedQueries`: <`Object`> | false

  The persisted queries option can be set to an object containing a `cache` field, which will be used to store the mapping between hash and query string.

* `cors`: <`Object` | `boolean`> ([apollo-server](https://github.com/expressjs/cors#cors))

  Pass the integration-specific CORS options. `false` removes the CORS middleware and `true` uses the defaults. This option is only available to `apollo-server`. For other server integrations, place `cors` inside of `applyMiddleware`.

* `experimental_approximateDocumentStoreSizeMiB`: `number`

  > **This property is experimental.**  It may be removed or change at any time, even within a patch release.

  When set, this sets the approximate size of the parsed/validated document
  store (in MiB).  This cache is used to save the already parsed and validated
  `DocumentNode`s for re-use on subsequent queries which resolve to the same
  `queryHash` (a SHA-256 of incoming operation).

  When this property is omitted, the cache is still enabled with a default
  size of 30MiB, which is generally sufficient unless the server is processing
  a high number of unique operations.

#### Returns

`ApolloServer`

## `ApolloServer.listen`

> **Note:** This method is only provided by the `apollo-server` package.  For the `apollo-server-{integration}` packages, see `applyMiddleware` below.

### Parameters

* `options`: <`Object`>

  When using the `apollo-server` package, calling `listen` on an instantiated `ApolloServer` will start the server by passing the specified (optional) `options` to a Node.js [`http.Server`](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_server).  For a full reference of the supported `options`, see the [documentation for `net.Server.listen`](https://nodejs.org/api/net.html#net_server_listen_options_callback).

### Returns

`Promise` that resolves to an object containing the following properties:

  * `url`: <`String`>
  * `subscriptionsPath`: <`String`>
  * `server`: &lt;[`http.Server`](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_server)&gt;

## `ApolloServer.applyMiddleware`

The `applyMiddleware` method is provided by the `apollo-server-{integration}` packages that use middleware, such as hapi and express. This method connects `ApolloServer` to a specific HTTP framework.

### Parameters

* `options`: <`Object`>

  * `app`: <`HttpServer`> _(required)_

    Pass an instance of the server integration here.

  * `path` : <`String`>

    Specify a custom path. It defaults to `/graphql` if no path is specified.

  * `cors`: <`Object` | `boolean`> ([express](https://github.com/expressjs/cors#cors), [hapi](https://hapijs.com/api#-routeoptionscors), [koa](https://github.com/koajs/cors/))

    Pass the integration-specific cors options. False removes the cors middleware and true uses the defaults.

  * `bodyParserConfig`: <`Object` | `boolean`> ([express](https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser#body-parser), [koa](https://github.com/koajs/bodyparser))

    Pass the body-parser options. False removes the body parser middleware and true uses the defaults.

### Usage

The `applyMiddleware` method from `apollo-server-express` registration of middleware as shown in the example below:

```js
const express = require('express');
const { ApolloServer } = require('apollo-server-express');
const { typeDefs, resolvers } = require('./schema');

const server = new ApolloServer({
  // These will be defined for both new or existing servers
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
});

const app = express();
// Additional middleware can be mounted at this point to run before Apollo.
app.use('*', jwtCheck, requireAuth, checkScope);

server.applyMiddleware({ app, path: '/specialUrl' }); // app is from an existing express app. Mount Apollo middleware here. If no path is specified, it defaults to `/graphql`.
```

## `ApolloServer.getMiddleware`

Similar to the `applyMiddleware` method above, though rather than applying the composition of the various Apollo Server middlewares which comprise a full-featured Apollo Server deployment (e.g. middleware for HTTP body parsing, GraphQL Playground, uploads and subscriptions) the `getMiddleware` simply returns the middleware.

The `getMiddleware` method takes the same arguments as `applyMiddleware` **except** `app` should not be passed.  Instead, the result of `getMiddleware` must be added as a middleware directly to an existing application (e.g. with `app.use(...)`).

For example, for `apollo-server-express`, this means that rather than passing `applyMiddleware` an `app` which was already initiated from calling `express()`, and `applyMiddleware` "using" (i.e. `app.use`), the implementor will instead call `app.use(...)` on the result of `getMiddleware` with the same arguments.

## `gql`

The `gql` is a [template literal tag](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#Tagged_templates). Template literals were introduced in recent versions of ECMAScript to provide embedded expressions (i.e. `` `A string with interpolated ${variables}` ``) and template literal tags exist to provide additional functionality for what would otherwise be a normal template literal.

In the case of GraphQL, the `gql` tag is used to surround GraphQL operation and schema language (which are represented as `String`s), and makes it easier to differentiate from ordinary strings. This is particularly useful when performing static analysis on GraphQL language (e.g. to enable syntax highlighting, code generation, etc.) and avoids need for tools to "guess" if a string contains GraphQL language.

### Usage

Import the `gql` template literal tag into the current context from the `apollo-server` or `apollo-server-{integration}` modules:

```js
const { gql } = require('apollo-server');
```

Then, place GraphQL schema definitions (SDL), queries or other operations into the `gql` template literal tag. Keep in mind that template literals use the grave accent (`` ` ``) and not normal quotation marks (e.g. not `"` or `'`):

```js
const typeDefs = gql`
  type Author {
    name
  }
`;
```

## `makeExecutableSchema`

The `makeExecutableSchema` method is re-exported from apollo-server as a convenience.

### Parameters

* `options` : <`Object`>
  * `typeDefs`: <`GraphQLSchema`> _(required)_
  * `resolvers` : <`Object`>
  * `logger` : <`Object`>
  * `allowUndefinedInResolve` = false
  * `resolverValidationOptions` = {}
  * `directiveResolvers` = null
  * `schemaDirectives` = null
  * `parseOptions` = {}
  * `inheritResolversFromInterfaces` = false

## `addMockFunctionsToSchema(options)`

The `addMockFunctionsToSchema` method is re-exported from `apollo-server` as a convenience.

Given an instance of a `GraphQLSchema` and a `mock` object, modifies the schema (in place) to return mock data for any valid query that is sent to the server.

If preserveResolvers is set to true, existing resolve functions will not be overwritten to provide mock data. This can be used to mock some parts of the server and not others.

### Parameters

* `options`: <`Object`>

  * `schema`: <`GraphQLSchema`> _(required)_

    Pass an executable schema (`GraphQLSchema`) to be mocked.

  * `mocks`: <`Object`>

    Should be a map of types to mock resolver functions, e.g.:

    ```js
    {
      Type: () => true,
    }
    ```

    When `mocks` is not defined, the default scalar types (e.g. `Int`, `Float`, `String`, etc.) will be mocked.

  * `preserveResolvers`: <`Boolean`>

    When `true`, resolvers which were already defined will not be over-written with the mock resolver functions specified with `mocks`.

### Usage

```js
const { addMockFunctionsToSchema } = require('apollo-server');

// We'll make an assumption that an executable schema
// is already available from the `./schema` file.
const executableSchema = require('./schema');

addMockFunctionsToSchema({
  schema: executableSchema,
  mocks: {
    // Mocks the `Int` scalar type to always return `12345`.
    Int: () => 12345,

    // Mocks the `Movies` type to always return 'Titanic'.
    Movies: () => 'Titanic',
  },
  preserveResolvers: false,
});
```

## `EngineReportingOptions`

*  `apiKey`: string __(required)__

  API key for the service. Obtain an API key from
  [Apollo Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com) by logging in and creating
  a service. You can also specify an API key with the `APOLLO_KEY`
  environment variable. If you specify both, the `apiKey` option takes precedence.

* `logger`: `Logger`

  By default, this will inherit from the `logger` provided to `ApolloServer` which defaults to `console` when not provided.  If specified within the `EngineReportingOptions` it can be used to send engine reporting to a separate logger.  If provided, the implementation must provide the methods which satisfy the requirements of [the `Logger` interface](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/blob/80a12d89ea1ae9a0892f4a81d9213eddf95ca965/packages/apollo-server-types/src/index.ts#L114-L121) (i.e. it must provide `debug`, `info`, `warn` and `error` methods).

*  `calculateSignature`: (ast: DocumentNode, operationName: string) => string

   Specify the function for creating a signature for a query.

   > See [`apollo-graphql`'s `signature.ts`](https://npm.im/apollo-graphql)
   > for more information on how the default signature is generated.

*  `reportIntervalMs`: number

   How often to send reports to Apollo Studio, in milliseconds. We'll also send reports
   when the report reaches a size threshold specified by `maxUncompressedReportSize`.

*  `maxUncompressedReportSize`: number

   In addition to interval-based reporting, Apollo Server sends a report to
   Apollo Studio whenever the report's size exceeds this value in
   bytes (default: 4MB). Note that this is a rough limit. The size of the
   report's header and some other top-level bytes are ignored. The report size is
   limited to the sum of the lengths of serialized traces and signatures.

*  `endpointUrl`: string

   The URL of the Apollo Studio report ingress server.

*  `requestAgent`: `http.Agent | https.Agent | false`

   HTTP(s) agent to be used for Apollo Studio metrics reporting.  This accepts either an [`http.Agent`](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v10.x/api/http.html#http_class_http_agent) or [`https.Agent`](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v10.x/api/https.html#https_class_https_agent) and behaves the same as the `agent` parameter to Node.js' [`http.request`](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v8.x/api/http.html#http_http_request_options_callback).

*  `debugPrintReports`: boolean

   If set, prints all reports as JSON when they are sent.

*  `maxAttempts`: number

   Reporting is retried with exponential backoff up to this many times
   (including the original request). Defaults to 5.

*  `minimumRetryDelayMs`: number

   Minimum backoff for retries. Defaults to 100ms.

*  `reportErrorFunction`: (err: Error) => void

   By default, any errors encountered while sending reports to Apollo Studio are logged to standard error. Specify this function to process errors in a different
   way.

* `sendVariableValues`: { transform: (options: { variables: Record<string, any>, operationString?: string } ) => Record<string, any> }
                     | { exceptNames: Array&lt;String&gt; }
                     | { onlyNames: Array&lt;String&gt; }
                     | { none: true }
                     | { all: true }

    By default, Apollo Server does not send the values of any GraphQL variables to Apollo's servers, because variable values often contain the private data of your app's users. If you'd like variable values to be included in traces, set this option. This option can take several forms:

    - `{ none: true }`: Don't send any variable values. **(DEFAULT)**
    - `{ all: true }`: Send all variable values.
    - `{ transform: ({ variables, operationString}) => { ... } }`: A custom function for modifying variable values. Keys added by the custom function will be removed, and keys removed will be added back with an empty value.  For security reasons, if an error occurs within this function, all variable values will be replaced with `[PREDICATE_FUNCTION_ERROR]`.
    - `{ exceptNames: [...] }`: A case-sensitive list of names of variables whose values should not be sent to Apollo servers.
    - `{ onlyNames: [...] }`: A case-sensitive list of names of variables whose values will be sent to Apollo servers.

   Defaults to not sending any variable values if both this parameter and the deprecated `privateVariables` are not set.
   The report will indicate each private variable key whose value was redacted by `{ none: true }` or `{ exceptNames: [...]` }.

*  `privateVariables`: Array&lt;String&gt; | boolean

   > Will be deprecated in 3.0. Use the option `sendVariableValues` instead.
   Passing an array into `privateVariables` is equivalent to
   passing in `{ exceptNames: array } ` to `sendVariableValues`, and passing in `true` or `false` is equivalent
   to passing ` { none: true } ` or ` { all: true }`, respectively.

   > Note: An error will be thrown if both this deprecated option and its replacement, `sendVariableValues` are defined.
   In order to preserve the old default of `privateVariables`, which sends all variables and their values, pass in the `sendVariableValues` option:
     `new ApolloServer({engine: {sendVariableValues: {all: true}}})`.

* `sendHeaders`: { exceptNames: Array&lt;String&gt; } | { onlyNames: Array&lt;String&gt; } | { all: boolean } | { none: boolean }
   By default, Apollo Server does not send the list of HTTP request headers and values to
   Apollo's servers, to protect private data of your app's users. If you'd like this information included in traces,
   set this option. This option can take several forms:

   - `{ none: true }`: Drop all HTTP request headers. **(DEFAULT)**
   - `{ all: true }`: Send the values of all HTTP request headers.
   - `{ exceptNames: [...] }`: A case-insensitive list of names of HTTP headers whose values should not be sent to Apollo servers.
   - `{ onlyNames: [...] }`: A case-insensitive list of names of HTTP headers whose values will be sent to Apollo servers.

   Defaults to not sending any request header names and values if both this parameter and the deprecated `privateHeaders` are not set.
   Unlike with `sendVariableValues`, names of dropped headers are not reported.
   The headers 'authorization', 'cookie', and 'set-cookie' are never reported.

*  `privateHeaders`: Array&lt;String&gt; | boolean

   > Will be deprecated in 3.0.  Use the `sendHeaders` option instead.
   Passing an array into `privateHeaders` is equivalent to passing ` { exceptNames: array } ` into `sendHeaders`, and
   passing `true` or `false` is equivalent to passing in ` { none: true } ` and ` { all: true }`, respectively.

   > Note: An error will be thrown if both this deprecated option and its replacement, `sendHeaders`, are defined.
   In order to preserve the old default of `privateHeaders`, which sends all request headers and their values, pass in the `sendHeaders` option:
      `new ApolloServer({engine: {sendHeaders: {all: true}}})`.

*  `handleSignals`: boolean

   By default, EngineReportingAgent listens for the 'SIGINT' and 'SIGTERM'
   signals, stops, sends a final report, and re-sends the signal to
   itself. Set this to false to disable. You can manually invoke 'stop()' and
   'sendReport()' on other signals if you'd like. Note that 'sendReport()'
   does not run synchronously so it cannot work usefully in an 'exit' handler.

*  `rewriteError`: (err: GraphQLError) => GraphQLError | null

   By default, all errors are reported to Apollo Studio.  This function can be used to exclude specific errors from being reported.  This function receives a copy of the `GraphQLError` and can manipulate it before it's reported.  The modified error (e.g., after changing the `err.message` property) should be returned, or the function can return `null` to avoid reporting the error entirely.  It is not permissible to return `undefined`. Note that most `GraphQLError` fields, like `path`, will be copied from the original error to the new error: this way, you can just `return new GraphQLError("message")` without having to explicitly keep it associated with the same node. Specifically, only the `message` and `extensions` properties on the returned `GraphQLError` are observed.  If `extensions` aren't specified, the original `extensions` are used.

*  `schemaTag`: String

   > Will be deprecated in 3.0. Use the option `graphVariant` instead.

   A human-readable name to tag this variant of a schema (i.e. staging, EU). Setting this value will cause metrics to be segmented in the Apollo Platform's UI. Additionally schema validation with a schema tag will only check metrics associated with the same string.

*  `graphVariant`: String

   A human-readable name for the variant of a schema (such as `staging` or `production`). Setting this value will cause metrics to be segmented in Apollo Studio. Additionally, schema validation with a graph variant only checks metrics associated with the same variant.

* `reportTiming`: Boolean | async (GraphQLRequestContextDidResolveOperation | GraphQLRequestContextDidEncounterErrors) => Boolean

    Specify whether to instrument an operation to send traces and metrics to Apollo.
    This may resolve to a boolean or a async function returning a promise resolving to a boolean.
    If the option resolves to false for an operation the operation will not be instrumented
    and no metrics information will be sent to Apollo.

    The function will receive a `GraphQLRequestContextDidResolveOperation` with client and operation
    information or a `GraphQLRequestContextDiDEncounterErrors` in the case an operation failed
    to resolve properly. This allows the choice of whether to include a given request in trace
    and metric reporting to be made on a per-request basis. The default value is true.

*  `generateClientInfo`: (GraphQLRequestContext) => ClientInfo **AS 2.2**

   Creates a client context(ClientInfo) based on the request pipeline's context, which contains values like the request, response, cache, and context. This generated client information will be provided to Apollo Studio and can be used to filter metrics. Set `clientName` to identify a particular client. Use `clientVersion` to specify a version for a client name.  The default function will use the `clientInfo` field inside of GraphQL Query `extensions`.

   For advanced use cases when you already have an opaque string to identify
   your client (e.g. an API key, x509 certificate, or team codename), use the
   `clientReferenceId` field to add a reference to its internal identity. This
   client reference ID will not be displayed in the UI but will be available
   for cross-correspondence, so names and reference ids should have a one to
   one relationship.

   > **Warning:** If you specify a `clientReferenceId`, Apollo Studio treats the `clientName` as a secondary lookup, so changing a `clientName` may result in an unwanted experience.

* `reportSchema`: boolean

   Enables the automatic schema reporting feature of Apollo Server, which will
   cause it to periodically report the server's schema (when changes are
   detected) along with details about the runtime environment to Apollo Graph
   Manager. This feature removes the need to register schemas manually via
   `apollo service:push` in CI/CD pipelines.

* `overrideReportedSchema`: string

   By default, the schema reported to Apollo Studio will be normalized,
   which might shift ordering and comments and remove whitespace. This option can
   be used to override the default schema. Any schema provided will not undergo
   normalization, which can be helpful to preserve details that normalization
   removes.

* `schemaReportingInitialDelayMaxMs`: number

   By default, the schema reporter will wait a random amount of time between 0
   and 10 seconds before making its first report at reporter startup. A longer
   range of times leads to more staggered starts, which reduces bandwidth
   since it makes it less likely that multiple servers will get asked to upload
   the same schema. However, in certain constrained environments (e.g. AWS
   Lambda), this wait time may be less desirable. This option can be used to
   change the maximum amount of time that the reporter will wait until it starts
   sending reports.
